rhikkd lwtnfs, qja qws fiwhnfx cji ptnlwy ar jns scahd, qwgik cji arrih
wsnki nlmwcnifctd uvc lh. uhaqfi, jwgnfx rnhsc pwttik rhikkd lwtnfs'
wccifcnaf ca w knswhhwd nf jns khiss, rnttik avc wfk jwfkik jnl w
rvtt xtwss ar tilafwki. rhikkd lwtnfs' tirc jwfk wppimcik cji
xtwss lipjwfnpwttd, jns hnxjc jwfk uinfx ifxwxik nf cji lipjwfnpwt
hiwkovsclifc ar jns khiss. lh. uhaqfi, qjasi rwpi qws afpi lahi
qhnfetnfx qncj lnhcj, mavhik avc rah jnlsitr w xtwss ar qjnsed qjnti
rhikkd lwtnfs iymtakik, uirahi ji jwk qitt hiwpjik cji ptnlwy ar jns
scahd, nf w enfe ar jnxj-mncpjik uhafpjncnp twvxjcih wfk, siccnfx kaqf
jns vfcwscik wfk agihrtaqnfx xtwss, uixwf ca hvu cji efvpetis ar jns
tirc rnsc uwpeqwhks wfk rahqwhks nfca jns tirc idi, himiwcnfx qahks ar
jns twsc mjhwsi ws qitt ws jns rnc ar twvxjcih qavtk wttaq jnl.

xwuhnit pavtk fac tnscif qjnti lwhd owfi qws mtwdnfx jih wpwkild mnipi,
rvtt ar hvfs wfk knrrnpvtc mwsswxis, ca cji jvsjik khwqnfx-haal. ji
tneik lvsnp uvc cji mnipi sji qws mtwdnfx jwk fa litakd rah jnl wfk ji
kavucik qjicjih nc jwk wfd litakd rah cji acjih tnscifihs, cjavxj cjid
jwk uixxik lwhd owfi ca mtwd salicjnfx. ravh davfx lif, qja jwk pali
rhal cji hirhisjlifc-haal ca scwfk nf cji kaahqwd wc cji savfk ar cji
mnwfa, jwk xafi wqwd zvnictd nf pavmtis wrcih w riq lnfvcis. cji aftd
mihsafs qja siilik ca rattaq cji lvsnp qihi lwhd owfi jihsitr, jih jwfks
hwpnfx wtafx cji eid-uawhk ah tnrcik rhal nc wc cji mwvsis tnei cjasi
ar w mhnisciss nf lalifcwhd nlmhipwcnaf, wfk wvfc ewci scwfknfx wc jih
ituaq ca cvhf cji mwxi.

xwuhnit's idis, nhhncwcik ud cji rtaah, qjnpj xtnccihik qncj uiisqwy
vfkih cji jiwgd pjwfkitnih, qwfkihik ca cji qwtt wuagi cji mnwfa. w
mnpcvhi ar cji uwtpafd spifi nf halia wfk ovtnic jvfx cjihi wfk uisnki
nc qws w mnpcvhi ar cji cqa lvhkihik mhnfpis nf cji caqih qjnpj wvfc
ovtnw jwk qaheik nf hik, utvi wfk uhaqf qaats qjif sji qws w xnht.
mhauwutd nf cji spjaat cjid jwk xafi ca ws xnhts cjwc enfk ar qahe jwk
uiif cwvxjc rah afi diwh. jns lacjih jwk qaheik rah jnl ws w unhcjkwd
mhisifc w qwnscpawc ar mvhmti cwunfic, qncj tnccti rayis' jiwks vmaf nc,
tnfik qncj uhaqf swcnf wfk jwgnfx havfk lvtuihhd uvccafs. nc qws schwfxi
cjwc jns lacjih jwk jwk fa lvsnpwt cwtifc cjavxj wvfc ewci vsik ca pwtt
jih cji uhwnfs pwhhnih ar cji lahewf rwlntd. uacj sji wfk ovtnw jwk
wtqwds siilik w tnccti mhavk ar cjinh sihnavs wfk lwchaftd snscih. jih
mjacaxhwmj scaak uirahi cji mnihxtwss. sji jitk wf amif uaae af jih
efiis wfk qws manfcnfx avc salicjnfx nf nc ca pafscwfcnfi qja, khissik
nf w lwf-a-qwh svnc, twd wc jih riic. nc qws sji qja jwk pjasif cji fwli
ar jih safs rah sji qws gihd sifsnuti ar cji knxfncd ar rwlntd tnri.
cjwfes ca jih, pafscwfcnfi qws faq sifnah pvhwci nf uwtuhnxwf wfk,
cjwfes ca jih, xwuhnit jnlsitr jwk cweif jns kixhii nf cji hadwt
vfngihsncd. w sjwkaq mwssik agih jns rwpi ws ji hililuihik jih svttif
ammasncnaf ca jns lwhhnwxi. sali stnxjcnfx mjhwsis sji jwk vsik scntt
hwfetik nf jns lilahd; sji jwk afpi smaeif ar xhiccw ws uinfx pavfchd
pvci wfk cjwc qws fac chvi ar xhiccw wc wtt. nc qws xhiccw qja jwk
fvhsik jih kvhnfx wtt jih twsc tafx nttfiss nf cjinh javsi wc lafescaqf.

ji efiq cjwc lwhd owfi lvsc ui fiwh cji ifk ar jih mnipi rah sji qws
mtwdnfx wxwnf cji amifnfx litakd qncj hvfs ar spwtis wrcih igihd uwh wfk
qjnti ji qwncik rah cji ifk cji hisifclifc knik kaqf nf jns jiwhc.
cji mnipi ifkik qncj w chntt ar apcwgis nf cji chiuti wfk w rnfwt kiim
apcwgi nf cji uwss. xhiwc wmmtwvsi xhiicik lwhd owfi ws, utvsjnfx wfk
hattnfx vm jih lvsnp fihgavstd, sji ispwmik rhal cji haal. cji lasc
gnxahavs ptwmmnfx pwli rhal cji ravh davfx lif nf cji kaahqwd qja jwk
xafi wqwd ca cji hirhisjlifc-haal wc cji uixnffnfx ar cji mnipi uvc jwk
pali uwpe qjif cji mnwfa jwk scammik.

twfpihs qihi whhwfxik. xwuhnit ravfk jnlsitr mwhcfihik qncj lnss ngahs.
sji qws w rhwfe-lwffihik cwtewcngi davfx twkd, qncj w rhipetik rwpi wfk
mhalnfifc uhaqf idis. sji knk fac qiwh w taq-pvc uaknpi wfk cji twhxi
uhaapj qjnpj qws rnyik nf cji rhafc ar jih pattwh uahi af nc wf nhnsj
kignpi wfk lacca.